= Prigner

== DESCRIPTION

Prigner is a Project Design Kit, that is, a tool which creates a conventional
structure for several projects as RubyGems, Websites, MVC application and
simple scripts. It is a DRY tool, because everything is based in templates. In
short, a project template engine.

=== Features

* Load and create all directories and files from template specification.
* The template specification is parsed to command line options.
* Default Ruby project templates.
  * Ruby Gem.
  * A simple project using setup.
* Add common tasks and libraries.
  * Tests.
  * Code for versioning.

== SYNOPSIS

  prign [OPTIONS]
  prign [COMMAND] [TEMPLATE]

== INSTALLATION

First, install Prigner stable through Gem:

  gem install prigner

If you want try the developer source:

  git clone http://github.com/codigorama/prigner.git

== USAGE

Prigner create the most common Ruby projects through templates shared. To
generate new Gem project, run command using the following syntax:

  prign new ruby:gem foo

  foo/
  |-- lib/
  |   |-- foo/
  |   `-- foo.rb
  |-- test/
  |   |-- fixtures/
  |   |-- foo_test.rb
  |   `-- helper.rb
  |-- CHANGELOG
  |-- COPYING
  |-- foo.gemspec
  |-- Rakefile
  `-- README.rdoc

This command will generate 'foo' Gem project structure. But all templates
offers options.

  prign new ruby:gem foo --bin

  foo/
  |-- bin/
  |   `-- foo
  |-- lib/
  |   |-- foo/
  |   |   `-- cli.rb
  |   `-- foo.rb
  |-- test/
  |   |-- fixtures/
  |   |-- foo_test.rb
  |   `-- helper.rb
  |-- CHANGELOG
  |-- COPYING
  |-- foo.gemspec
  |-- Rakefile
  `-- README.rdoc

Run <tt>prign list</tt> to view all available templates.

You can creates your own templates. Just save in your home directory
<tt>~/.prigner/templates/<your-template></tt>. For more information about
templates, see "TEMPLATES.rdoc" file.

== BUGS AND CONTRIBUTING

If you want contributes with the project, please, see the following instructions:

1. Fork the project from http://github.com/codigorama/prigner.git.
2. Set the following environment variable: <tt>export RUBYOPT=$PWD/lib:.</tt>,
   where +PWD+ points to project directory.

If you find a bug, please, open a issue in http://github.com/codigorama/prigner/issues.

== AUTHOR

Written by {Hallison Batista}[http://github.com/hallison].

== COPYRIGHT

Prigner is Copyright (C) 2010, {Codigorama}[http://codigorama.com] under MIT License.

See COPYING file for more information about license.

